== Richie Rich

GOAL: Follow a simple investing model that requires very little babysitting and re-balancing, and with a better than market risk profile.

The goal of the richie_rich script is to notify the user once a month with an report for each of the below funds outlining whether they should be in a buy/hold or sell/cash position.


== Directions

1) Setup an account with {Vanguard}[https://www.vanguard.com/].  The Vanguard family of funds are famous for being rock solid with very little management overhead.

2) Purchase a series of low cost mutual funds in a series of non-correlated markets.  Follow the fund recommendations outlined in the book, {The Gone Fishin' Portfolio}[http://www.amazon.com/Gone-Fishin-Portfolio-Wealthy-Agora/dp/0470598190/].

    "Your asset allocation is your single biggest investment decision.  Studies show that over 90% of your 
    portfolio's long-term return is due to this factor alone.", 
    [Green A., The Gone Fishin' Portfolio, pg. 88]

* (15%) {VTSMX,Vanguard Total Stock Market Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VTSMX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (15%) {NAESX,Vanguard Small Cap Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=NAESX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=] 
* (10%) {VEIEX,Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VEIEX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (10%) {VEURX,Vanguard European Stock Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VEURX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (10%) {VPACX,Vanguard Pacific Stock Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VPACX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (10%) {VWEHX,Vanguard High-Yield Corporate}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VWEHX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (10%) {VFSTX,Vanguard Short-Term Investment-Grade}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VFSTX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (10%) {VIPSX,Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VIPSX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (5%)  {VGSIX,Vanguard REIT Index}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VGSIX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]
* (5%)  {VGPMX,Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining}[http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ta?s=VGPMX&t=1y&l=on&z=l&q=l&p=m200&a=&c=]

3) After purchasing the listed Vanguard funds with the above allocations, in effort to reduce risk, utilize the "Systematic Tactical Asset Allocation" method as outlined in the book {The Ivy Portfolio}[http://www.amazon.com/Ivy-Portfolio-Invest-Endowments-Markets/dp/1118008855/] or in the paper {A Quantitative Approach to Tactical Asset Allocation}[http://trendfollowing.com/whitepaper/CMT-Simple.pdf]

    "While timing model [Systematic Tactical Asset Allocation] returns are approximately the same as buy-and-hold for each
    asset class (although higher in all five), risk was reduced in every case across volatility and maximum", 
    [Richardson, Eric W. - Faber, Mebane T., The Ivy Portfolio, pg. 141]


== The Code

The program should be run on the first day of each month.  You could use cron for this.

    # Run this at midnight for the first of the month.
    # Make sure this is a system that has a constant uptime; wouldn't want to miss running this report.
    0 0 1 * * ruby /Users/jjones/Projects/richie_rich/richie_rich.rb > /dev/null

Rebalancing should take place once a month. In non tax-exempt funds, adding to positions to bring the portfolio back into balance is desired since selling of positions can trigger short term capital gains.

== License

Copyright (c) 2011 Jim Jones

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

THE INVESTMENT MODELS ARE NOT MY OWN.  PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT INDICATIVE OF  FUTURE PERFORMANCE.
All  contents of the Richie Rich code base are provided for information purposes only. You agree that
the Information should not be interpreted as investment advice or as an offer to buy or sell any 
security or futures contract. 

I AM NOT A REGISTERED BROKER-DEALER OR FINANCIAL ADVISOR. I DO NOT PROVIDE PERSONAL INVESTMENT ADVICE.  
Remarks and data comprising the Richie Rich code are for information purposes only and are provided without warranty of
any kind.  In no event will I be liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, or accidental damages arising out of
any decision made or action taken by you in reliance on the information or any part of this code, whether or not caused 
in whole or part by my negligence.